hey this is pressure Locker you visit a
shrine that has three temples in a
magical pond before you visit a temple
you have to swim in the pond the path
you take involves swimming in the pond
to get to the first temple swimming in
the pond to get to the second temple and
then swimming in the pond to get to the
third temple each time you swim in the
pond the number of flowers you are
carrying magically triples you place an
equal number of flowers at each temple
you visit and at the very end you have
no flowers remaining the problem is what
is the least number of flowers you could
have started with to be specific you
start with the positive number of
flowers and you place a whole number of
flowers at each temple can you figure it
out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution we will solve the problem
algebraically imagine you start with X
flowers and you leave Y flowers at each
temple let's keep track of how many
flowers you have at each part of the
trip you start out with X flowers when
you swim in the pond
the number of flowers you have triples
to 3x you then leave Y flowers at the
first temple which leaves you with 3x
minus y flowers you then swim in the
pond which triples the number of flowers
you have to 9x minus 3y you'll leave Y
flowers at the second temple which
leaves you with 9x minus 4y flowers you
then swim in the pond once more which
triples the number of flowers you have
to 27 X minus 12 y you leave Y flowers
at the third temple and you have 27 X
minus 13 Y flowers of course at the very
end you have no flowers
this leads to the equation 27 X minus 13
y equals 0 so x equals 13 divided by 27
times y we need the number of flowers
you place to be a whole number the least
value for y would be 27 which means that
you started with 13 flowers in fact this
is the solution we will verify this
numerically so if we start out with 13
flowers we swim in the pond and that
triples to 39 we then leave 27 flowers
at the first temple which leaves us with
12 flowers this triples to be 36 we
leave 27 flowers at the second temple
which leaves us with 9 flowers this
triples when we swim in the pond to be
we then leave those 27 flowers at the
final temple which leaves us with 0
flowers so that's the solution of this
problem now interestingly enough the
kind of mathematics involved in this
problem can actually be applied to
financial products we can reinterpret
the problem as an example of an annuity
which is a financial instrument that has
equal payments at regular intervals the
number of flowers we place at each
temple why flowers could be considered
having equal payments at regular
intervals imagine we take a loan out for
X dollars every year we pay off Y
dollars of the loan but each year the
amount of debt that we have remaining
triples we have an interest rate of 200
percent if we had this kind of problem
and each temple we imagine visiting one
temple in a year this would exactly lead
us to the same algebraic problem of
paying off the debt in three years in
which we have an equal payment of Y
every year and the outstanding debt
triples at the very end we would want
our debt to be Z
the mathematics of annuities can be
generalized so let's imagine we didn't
know anything about this problem and we
just approached it as an annuity here's
how it would work in terms of time
intervals we start out at the first
interval where we take a loan of x
dollars after one year our loan will
increase by an outstanding loan rate an
interest rate of I percent so we
multiply x times 1 plus I percent after
the first year we make a fixed payment
of Y dollars which decreases the balance
of our outstanding loan by y dollars now
comes the part where in the second year
we have an interest on the amount of
loan that's remaining so we multiply
these amounts by 1 plus I this is like
dipping into the pond and having
everything magically grow up by 1 plus I
so we multiply 1 plus I times both terms
and this is what we end up with we then
pay an amount Y and we subtract that on
the outstanding loan which then gets
increased by 1 plus I in the next period
so this pattern can continue and we can
imagine paying this off until n years we
end up with a formula that involves a
geometric series we then have one final
payment of Y which then changes the
subscript on the geometric series and we
now want our loan to be paid off in n
years so we need this to be equal to 0
we can simplify this formula by using
the sum of a geometric series up to n
minus 1 this is the formula that we end
up with and this can be used for any
annuity where you take out X dollars you
have an interest rate of AI and you have
n periods in the magical pond we started
out we had three different temples so we
had three different periods and between
each temple we have to swim in the pond
and the number of flowers we had group
tripled which is an interest rate of
200% we can substitute these values into
our new 'ti formula and notice we end up
with exactly the same equation of 27 X
minus 13 y equals 0 this is an alternate
way of solving the problem and it's a
way to see how this problem relates to
financial products thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch around my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker and if you like this video please
check out my books there links in the
video description